[screams]
[KEIICHI]
Satoko, it's me. It's Keiichi!
Do you hear me?
[SATOKO]
No!
[KEIICHI]
It's okay! We're friends.
I won't hurt you!
[SATOKO]
Help me. Someone, help!
Satoko!
[RENA] Please. Just give
her some space, Keiichi.
[SATOKO sobs]
No!
[RENA]
Don't be scared, Satoko.
You're safe here with us.
It's okay.
[SATOKO]
Nii‐nii. Help me. I need you!
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
We wanted to help you,
and we failed.
[RENA]
Please forgive us.
[gasps]
Kids, what happened?
Ms. Hojo? Are you okay?
[SATOKO chortles]
Oh, I'm fine,
if a bit embarrassed that
things got so out of hand!
My, and all over a silly dispute
with Rena about lunch. Really!
[chortles]
I'm sorry if
I took the joke too far!
But I think it would be best
for everyone if we moved on now.
We can't do that.
If we can't help...
[RIKA]
Satoko?
Yes, Rika?
Will you please come back
to the shrine with me
and stay over tonight?
I explained this.
My uncle has moved back to town,
and I'm living with him now.
[RIKA] I know, but that's
not what you want, is it?
[SATOKO]
It doesn't matter what I want.
Hey, Rika. How'd it go?
It's bullcrap!
Why has Child Welfare
Services been sitting
on their hands this whole time?
[MION] Satoko has a false
abuse report on her record.
They won't intervene
without hard evidence.
So what? We wait around
for him to do something
that leaves her bloody
and bruised?
Stop, Keiichi!
I only meant they're‐‐
[SHION] What the hell
is left to talk about?
Wait, Shion? You're here?
[SHION] If we don't stop him,
he will kill her.
Enough talking. We need to act!
[RENA] Yeah, I agree
with Shion and Keiichi.
It's true. Satoko needs
our help, we can't wait!
There must be something
we can do for her!
[KEIICHI]
But what would it be?
Will another report to
Child Welfare change anything?
[SHION] We don't have time
to cut through red tape!
Let's ambush the pig bastard
and cut his throat!
[RENA]
That isn't right!
Shion. More violence
won't fix this!
We have to find
a better way to help her!
So who's gonna protect her
while we're looking?
If Satoko's safe,
I don't care what I have to do!
What would I tell Satoshi
if something happened to her?
[MION]
You need to calm down, Shion.
[SHION] And you, leader
of the great Sonozaki house.
Do something good with
that name and help her!
You can't, right?
The demon hag is
still the real leader,
and she still thinks
she's fighting the Hojos
in the dam war!
[SHION] So stand around here
and wait for your friend to die.
I'll go alone!
Satoko is not my blood,
but she is my sister!
I've got a pig to slaughter.
See ya later.
[KEIICHI]
Wait.
What for? You won't stop me.
If you murdered somebody
to save Satoko's life,
would you expect her
to be thankful for that?
I'll still do it even
if she hates me for it.
I want her to live a happy life,
even if I can't be part of it.
[KEIICHI]
That's not right.
You would end up regretting it
till the day you die.
You'd only realize
what you wanted out of this
when you saw that it was gone.
You don't wanna kill anyone.
You wanna go back to a world
where all your friends
can live happily!
But this won't get us there.
None of us would be
happy in a world
where you're a murderer!
And Satoko would
spend her whole life
blaming herself for turning
her friend into a killer.
You say you'd do it for her,
but it'd make her miserable!
If you really meant
what you said
about letting
her live a happy life,
you'd be making a big mistake!
Have you come up
with any kind of plan
to keep Satoko's uncle
from killing her?
Because I have!
So get the hell out of my way!
I can't let you do this.
Understood. You're on his side.
Fine, If I have to bust you open
to get to him then so be it!
[MION]
Shion! Put that down!
[KEIICHI]
Shion.
You're right. I have no plan.
But I'm sure that if
all of us work together,
we can still figure out a
better way to protect Satoko.
We have to!
[SHION]
Last warning.
Move, Keiichi, right now!
[KEIICHI] Believe in
your friends and in me!
I swear I'm gonna save
Satoko, no matter what!
Shut your mouth!
Your words aren't
worth a thing to me!
[MION]
Shion!
[KEIICHI]
Is that it?
'Cause if you wanna go,
you'll have to kill me.
If you walk out this door,
then you'll be walking out
of our world for good.
And Satoko will spend every day
believing it's
her fault you left us.
Her world will be hell!
Do you not understand that
I'm done talking about it?
I don't wanna live
in world like that.
I want a world with my friends.
All of you!
One where we can play together!
It would be impossible to live
in a world without of hope.
And we don't.
As long as we're all here,
there's a chance.
It may be hard to see it,
but hope is not gone.
Please. Believe in me!
Nice save. Thank you.
Ni‐pah!
[SHION]
So, what now?
It was a nice little spiel;
I'll give you that.
But we're no closer
to resolving things.
[RIKA]
I know you, Keiichi.
You'll understand this.
We're in a really
tough place right now,
and it's starting
to look like a dead end,
but I know there's
still a way out.
I'm sure if we
all work together,
we can make a miracle happen.
Doing that is enough.
We'll win if we stick together.
[KEIICHI]
That's it!
We go to Child Welfare
Services in person!
[SHION]
What are you saying?
[KEIICHI]
We're the only ones
who know what
she's going through!
I think Keiichi's right.
I'm not sure anybody
they've talked to yet
could explain her
situation like we could.
I get that.
Attacking this issue
head‐on might be best.
Once those bureaucrats
make a decision,
I've heard they usually
won't give it a second look.
You think the system
will help her?
[KEIICHI] Even if it won't,
we at least have to try, right?
[RENA]
Well, Shion?
Will you come help us
fight for our friend?
I'm with you. Let's get to work.
They don't mind making us wait.
[OFFICIAL]
Mister Maebara?
Apologies for the wait.
[KEIICHI] So I believe
your agency received a call
from our school yesterday.
You've been taking a
"wait and see" approach so far,
but our friend
really needs help,
and it seems like you don't
have the entire picture
of what's going on
in her home right now.
[CWS WORKER]
All right. Specifically?
We realize Satoko didn't
say anything was wrong,
but that's only because
her uncle was threatening her.
So you're going to keep
"monitoring the situation"
until he murders her?
[CWS WORKER] Please understand,
Ms. Hojo's case is still active.
"Wait and see" is a
mischaracterization.
When you say "active,"
what does that mean?
I'm sorry, but whatever
it is you're doing here
hasn't helped her at all.
One of our social workers
contacted the Hojos last night.
We'll continue
to check on Satoko
intermittently going forward,
and we won't let
her parents mistreat her.
[SHION]
Her parents are dead!
She lives with her uncle!
You might wanna
try reading that file!
I apologize.
That was a misstatement.
Regardless, we will ensure
she's being properly cared for.
Satoko's been doing just fine
without her uncle around!
Then one day he shows up
and grabs her off the street.
How is that any different
from kidnapping?
Japanese Civil Code,
article 821.
As her legal guardian,
her uncle is granted the right
to determine Satoko's residence.
And who the hell let that
slimeball become her guardian?
[MION]
Shion.
As soon as Satoko's
parents passed away,
her aunt and uncle
were given custody of her.
I'm not sure which article,
but it's the law.
[CWS WORKER]
Article 818, miss.
Okay.
But her guardian, Teppei Hojo.
He chose to leave her
alone for a whole year.
Has that factored
into your response?
All details of the
case are confidential,
but we have inquired
as to the reason
behind his absence
during that time.
And his explanation
was good enough
that you decided to just
keep your people on standby?
[CWS WORKER] As I mentioned,
it's an active case.
[KEIICHI] You got a report
about her aunt and uncle
abusing her last year.
That binder shoulda said
something about that, right?
We can't discuss
details of the case.
Rest assured, we are
considering all of the facts.
[SHION]
I know your game.
You're sitting on her case
because one time
she made a false report!
[CWS WORKER]
We're working to determine
what would best serve the child.
[SHION]
Come on!
Stop giving us the
runaround and get her out!
If anything happens to her,
I'll make you all regret it!
[MION]
Stop, Shion.
That isn't gonna
get us anywhere.
One last thing,
I don't know how her uncle
comes across on the phone,
but you can't trust him!
Whatever he tells you,
don't believe it!
[CWS WORKER]
I understand your concerns.
and I'll pass them
on to her case worker.
We sincerely appreciate
you coming to talk to us.
Thank you for your help.
[SHION]
Well, she was useless.
That was a textbook
bureaucrat blowoff.
But she said
she'd pass our message
on to Satoko's
case worker, right?
That counts for
something, hopefully.
Is there a way to get in touch
with that person by ourselves?
I couldn't say,
but when you think about
the kind of work they do,
I'd have to guess we can't.
I mean, if we could track
down her social worker,
so could any deadbeat
parent with a bone to pick.
It's hard to make them
understand how much we care.
Hey, Mion.
You've dealt with city
officials before, haven't you?
Wouldn't it be best for you
to deal with them instead of me?
[SHION]
They pay attention to her
when she's speaking as the
head of the Sonozaki family.
Without that name
to throw around,
she's just some teenage girl.
[KEIICHI]
So, what do we do now?
[RIKA]
Keiichi?
[KEIICHI]
Sorry.
I was the one who
pushed you guys this far.
But it's a dead end.
[RIKA]
That's not true.
You said to believe in you.
You'd save her no matter what.
And so that's what I believed.
[RIKA]
I still believe it now.
So if you're
telling me to believe
that you've totally
given up on Satoko,
and there's nothing
else we can do.
I refuse!
No matter how bad things look,
I'll believe in you, Keiichi!
Because you were
the one who told me
you would tear fate
apart like wet paper!
Rika.
[RIKA]
You can set it right.
Please, help us.
We have to save Satoko!
It's a good thing you're around
to talk some sense
into me, Rika.
No way I can give up over this.
There are people
who believe in me,
and I owe it to them
to keep fighting!
Keiichi.
[KEIICHI]
We can't let this get us down!
You guys weren't really
ready to throw in the towel
over one little setback, right?
[RENA]
Keiichi, we get it, but...
[KEIICHI]
If this was a club activity,
you all would have
just lost the game!
[MION chuckles]
Exactly right, Kei!
If the game's on, play to win!
That's right. Fight on!
All right.
Now what are we
actually going to do?
[KEIICHI]
Listen up, guys!
We all need to talk
about Satoko Hojo, okay?
As you're all well aware,
she wasn't able
to come to school today.
Her bastard uncle called
in to say she had a cold,
but we know it's a lie!
When has Satoko
ever gotten sick?
She could eat her
lunch off the ground
and not even blink!
Now a cold's had
her laid out for days?
Guys, are we really
gonna believe that?
Yeah, that's true!
[KEIICHI]
We know what's going on here.
Satoko's uncle is the
one keeping her home!
We've taken our concerns
to Child Welfare Services,
and what do you
think they told us?
They said they'd be checking
in from time to time,
and that they wouldn't be
able to tell us any details
about her case because
of confidentiality rules!
So, everyone,
what do you think?
Is that okay with you?
It's not okay with me!
All of us here know
exactly how awful
her aunt and uncle
were treating her.
No one else knows
what she's been through!
[KEIICHI]
Satoko's our classmate.
She's our friend!
You all grew up in
this room with her.
Her real family is right here
in this school building!
So are we gonna sit here now
and let our family suffer?
I say we're not!
We're gonna help her. All of us!
Our club already got
the ball rolling for you.
We've been working hard
on getting Satoko
out of that house!
Tomita, do you know
what we're gonna do?
Uh, no. No idea!
[KEIICHI] Well then,
let me lay it out for you!
We're going to follow every
last rule down to the letter.
We're doing this by the book!
[MION]
That's right!
The best thing we can do for
her is approach this head‐on.
That's when we're
at our strongest!
[SHION] We don't need
underhanded tactics.
We'll crush them
in the open instead!
[OKUMURA]
When you say "crush them."
Is this like an actual fight?
This is definitely a real fight.
But not with our fists and feet.
We're gonna fight them
using our power as citizens!
Our club already
launched the first strike
on Child Welfare Services.
They wrote down that five
of Satoko Hojo's classmates
showed up and asked
them to help her,
then sent us home.
So we know exactly
what we have to do!
Five is not enough!
If we're gonna save her,
we're gonna need
all of your help!
We're gonna show them
that we're the
Hinamizawa School,
and we mean business!
[KIDS cheer]
[CHIE]
Maebara. Are you...
[RIKA]
Chie.
[CHIE]
Ms. Furude!
What is going on in there?
They're all doing
whatever they can
to make sure Satoko can be safe.
I lack the power
to do anything for her
without all of them by my side.
But if you plan on
trying to stop them,
I can stand in
your way if nothing else!
I understand.
So please, just try not
to let anybody get hurt, okay?
Will you promise me?
Thank you so much!
[KEIICHI]
Okay, everyone!
After school,
we all head for Okinomiya!
[KIDS]
Yeah!
[CHIE]
Wait.
[KEIICHI]
Ms. Chie.
Are you gonna try
to get in our way?
[CHIE]
No.
If you would have me,
I'll join you.
Is that okay?
[KIDS cheer]
[OFFICIAL]
Oh, wow.
Well, what can
we do for you today?
We came here to help
you fully understand
the urgency of
Satoko Hojo's case.
I see.
And how many
people did you bring?
The whole
Hinamizawa School's here,
with our teacher.
We're 16 altogether.
[HARAYAMA]
Now, let's begin.
I've been made aware
that you've raised concerns
that Satoko Hojo's living
situation is dangerous enough
to warrant intervention
by Child Welfare Services.
And in response,
our office informed you
that her case is not
merely being monitored,
but rather is actively
under investigation.
Have you considered
that her uncle
already has a prior record
of abuse from last year?
[HARAYAMA]
Pursuant to this.
According to our records,
an investigation
conducted last year turned up
no evidence of wrongdoing
by Teppei Hojo personally.
What?
[HARAYAMA] We did receive
corroborating reports
involving Satoko
and her late aunt Tamae.
But we have no indication
that Teppei was involved
in those incidents,
even within those reports.
Even then,
maybe her aunt's behavior
was just what
people noticed more!
Possibly.
I can leave a note here
for her case worker
to give extra scrutiny
to Teppei Hojo's behavior.
[SHION] You might also
mention that he abandoned her
for an entire year.
We were told that a lack
of adequate job opportunities
forced Teppei Hojo
to search elsewhere
for income to provide
for Satoko's needs.
What's more,
we asked Satoko directly
about the alleged abuse.
She denied everything outright.
Accordingly,
Child Welfare Services
has no grounds to intervene.
We sincerely hope
you'll continue
to support Satoko
however you can,
including helping
her adjust to her new life
in her uncle Teppei's home.
[SHION]
Screw you.
Have you listened to a
single damn word we said?
Any of it?
[HARAYAMA] I understand
your frustration, and again,
your testimony will
not be set aside.
We are actively
pursuing Satoko's case.
[RIKA] Then will you
take responsibility
if something happens
to her in the meantime?
[SHION]
You will!
If Teppei leaves the
tiniest scratch on her,
you'll all bleed for it!
[CHIE]
Shion, stop.
That's too far.
Well, sir, can you tell us
when we should
expect a final decision?
As we've established,
it will take some
time to thoroughly
review all the
facts in this matter,
but I do hope you're
all at least satisfied
that we are genuinely looking
out for your friend's wellbeing.
[SHION] It's like the
dam war all over again, huh?
[MION]
Just like it.
Though when that was going on,
all these kids would've
been babies, if that.
Community spirit is what
let Hinamizawa survive.
[MION]
One enemy faces two of us.
We meet two of them with
four and meet four with eight.
A thousand‐man army will
face the entire village.
Who said that?
Well,
I believe that was
our demon hag grandma.
That makes sense.
With big enough numbers,
you can overwhelm any enemy.
[TOMITA]
Maebara!
I don't think
Child Welfare Services
is gonna get Satoko
the help she needs.
It really sucks, but yeah.
Doesn't look like it.
We live near the Hojos,
and we've seen just
how awful her uncle can be!
We can't give up
while she's trapped there!
Our friend is in trouble
and we have to keep
doing everything we can
until we know for
sure that she's safe!
[KIDS]
Yeah, that's right!
Good, we're all in!
Everyone, let's pick
this thing back up tomorrow!
Twenty just won't be enough.
Let's try to get 60 people here!
[KIDS]
Yeah!
I'll ask anybody
who might come out!
[BOY]
Anything we can do to help!
[RIKA]
It's here.
The power to tear fate apart.
This is it!
[RIKA] Next time:
Tataridamashi‐hen, Part 4.